Fix/doc 4254 (#47)
exoplatform/exo-documentation: docs/Administration.rst

register a new user. An email that notifies of newly registered user
should be sent to you.

.. _UserGuide.AdministratingSpaces:

======================
Administrating spaces 
======================

Starting from eXo Platform 5.2, it is possible to restrict which users can create and/or manage spaces
through an easy to use interface .

|image305|

.. note:: By default, only the super user (i.e. **root**) is allowed to create spaces and only administrators (i.e.
          the members of the group ``*:/platform/administrators``) are allowed to manage spaces.
          
The spaces administration interface is accessible via the menu Administration --> Spaces.

|image306|

This interface contains two tabs:

- "Manage spaces" tab displays the list of spaces and the corresponding actions: edit and delete.

> - "Permissions" tab lets you grant permissions to a group of users to :ref:`Create <Create-Space>` or :ref:`Manage <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>` spaces. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Permissions" tab displays the list of groups who can :ref:`Create <Create-Space>` or :ref:`Manage <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>` spaces. 
```

> In this section, you will learn how to use the Spaces administration interface to :     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spaces administration interface allows to :     
```

-  :ref:`Manage spaces <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>`
-  :ref:`Change permissions <AdministratingSpaces.Permissions>`

.. _AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces:

Manage spaces tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image308|

> The "Manage spaces" tab can be seen by users belonging to any listed in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Manage spaces" tab can be seen by users belonging to any group listed in 
```

> The "Manage spaces" tab is viewable by the group of users defined in the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Manage spaces" tab can be seen by users belonging to any listed in 
```

> :ref:`Permissions tab <AdministratingSpaces.Permissions>` by the "Manage spaces" permission. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the "Manage spaces" permission of the :ref:`Permissions tab <AdministratingSpaces.Permissions>`. 
```

Users with this permission are allowed to edit or delete any space in the platform.

|image307|

> If the permission has no value defined in the interface, the group of users defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the permission has no value defined in the interface, users in the groups defined
```

by the property :ref:`exo.social.spaces.administrators <SpacesAdministration>` in

> :ref:`exo.properties file <Configuration.eXoConfiguration>` is allowed to manage spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`exo.properties file <Configuration.eXoConfiguration>` are allowed to manage spaces.
```

> .. warning:: When the Manage spaces permission is defined both through the interface and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: When the Manage spaces permission is both defined through the interface and 
```

>              by configuration, the value in the interface takes precedence. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             the configuration, the value in the interface takes precedence. 
```

.. note:: If the permission is neither defined through the interface nor by configuration, only administrators are
          allowed to access the Manage spaces tab.
          

Edit space
-----------

> Users with the "Manage Spaces" permission, can edit space settings by clicking the edit icon |image309| of a specific space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users granted with the "Manage Spaces" permission, can edit any space settings by clicking the edit icon |image309| of a specific space.
```

> The Space Settings page of the target space is opened in another browser tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Space Settings page of the target space is then opened in another browser tab.
```

|image320|

> From there, even without being a member on that space, one can edit the space settings, access, visibility, members, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, even without being a member of that space, one can edit the space settings, access, visibility, members, 
```

applications and navigation. See :ref:`Managing space settings <Manage-Space-Settings>`
section for more details.

|image310|

.. tip: You can find :ref:`here <Manage-Space-Settings>` the possible actions for a space's manager.

Delete space
--------------

> Users with the Manage Spaces permission, can also :ref:`delete <Delete-Space>` any space of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users granted with the Manage Spaces permission, can also :ref:`delete <Delete-Space>` any space of 
```

> the platform even the spaces where they are neither a manager nor a member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the platform; even the spaces where they are neither a manager nor a member.
```

To delete a space, a click on the delete icon |image311| of the corresponding space in the interface of 
the "Manage spaces" tab is needed.

|image312|

> A confirmation popup appears to confirm deletion of the space or cancel 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A confirmation popup appears to confirm deletion of the space or to cancel 
```

:ref:`the space's deletion <Delete-Space>`.

|image313|

> .. warning:: When you delete a space, all its data is also removed and can't be recovered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: When deleting a space, all its data is also removed and can't be recovered.
```

.. _AdministratingSpaces.Permissions:

Permissions tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image318|

> This tab allows administrators of the platform, define permissions related to all spaces of the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tab allows administrators of the platform to define permissions related to all spaces of the platform.
```

To define who can create spaces:

1. Click on edit icon |image314| in the actions column of the line **Create spaces** ==> A field with the  
   current values appears to easily edit them. The edit icon turns into a save icon |image315| and a new 
   |image317| icon appears to cancel the changes.
   
   |image319|
   
2. Remove existing values and/or enter new ones. When typing in the field, type-ahead suggestions will appear below for easier selection

>    of the groups.

Reviewer: @mzorai screenshot of the type-ahead suggestions would be useful here.

Author: @plamarque  i tried to make a screen shot for the type-ahead suggestions but when i click on the screen shot button (either with the keyboard or a browser button) they disappear!

   
3. After entering or selecting the groups, a click on 

>    the save icon |image316| will validate the new permission grants.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the save icon |image316| validates the new permission grants.  
```

register a new user. An email that notifies of newly registered user
should be sent to you.

.. _UserGuide.AdministratingSpaces:

======================
Administrating spaces 
======================

> Starting from eXo Platform 5.2, it is possible to define a group of users able to create and/or manage spaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from eXo Platform 5.2, it is possible to restrict which users can create and/or manage spaces
```

through an interface easy to use.

|image305|

> .. note:: By default, only the super user i.e. **root** is able to create spaces and only administrators i.e.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: By default, only the super user (i.e. **root**) is allowed to create spaces and only administrators (i.e.
```

>           the group ``*:/platform/administrators`` members are able to access the Spaces administration menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          the group ``*:/platform/administrators`` members are allowed to manage spaces.
```

          
The spaces administration interface is accessible via the menu Administration --> Spaces.

|image306|

This interface contains two tabs:

> - The first "Manage spaces" displays the list of spaces with the corresponding actions: edit and delete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Manage spaces" tab displays the list of spaces and the corresponding actions: edit and delete.
```

> - The second "Permissions" allows you to grant permissions to a group of users to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Permissions" tab allows you to grant permissions to a group of users either to:
```

     -  :ref:`Create spaces <Create-Space>`

>      -  :ref:`Manage spaces <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     -  or to :ref:`Manage spaces <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>`
```

     
In this section, we will describe how to use the Spaces administration interface through two parts:     

-  :ref:`Manage spaces <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>`
-  :ref:`Change permissions <AdministratingSpaces.Permissions>`

.. _AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces:

Manage spaces tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image308|

The "Manage spaces" tab is viewable by the group of users defined in the 
:ref:`Permissions tab <AdministratingSpaces.Permissions>` by the variable "Manage spaces". 

|image307|

If the variable is not defined through the interface, the group of users defined
by the propoerty :ref:`exo.social.spaces.administrators <SpacesAdministration>` in
:ref:`exo.properties file <Configuration.eXoConfiguration>` is allowed to manage spaces.

.. warning:: When the spaces managers group is defined by the two methods i.e. through the interface and 

>              by configuration and that the values are different, the value in the interface is taken into account. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             by configuration and that the values are different, the value in the interface takes precedence. 
```

> .. note:: If the variable is not defined neither through the interface nor by configuration, only administrators are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: If the variable is neither defined through the interface nor by configuration, only administrators are
```

>           able to acces to Manage spaces tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          allowed to access the Manage spaces tab.
```

> The group of users allowed to manage spaces can edit or delete any space in the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users allowed to manage spaces can edit or delete any space in the platform.
```

Edit space
-----------

When you are a member of the group of spaces managers and you click on the edit icon |image309| of a specific space,

> you will be redirected to the configuration page of that space in an another browser tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you are redirected to the configuration page of that space in an another browser tab.
```

|image310|

You can edit the space's configuration by:

-  Changing its description

> -  Chaging its name 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Changing its name 
```

> -  Adding/removing members 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Adding or removing members 
```

-  Changing the space's visibility and accessibilty 

> -  Adding/removing Applications 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Adding or removing Applications 
```

> -  Editing its navigation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Editing the space's navigation
```

even if you are not a member on that space.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can you please add a note with a link of how a space manager can manage its space in Managing my spaces section ?

Author: OK

Reviewer: link still missing. I suggest to add it at the end of my suggested sentence : "From there, even... (see [Managing my spaces])."

Delete space
--------------

Being a member of the spaces managers group allows you also to delete any space of the platform 
even the spaces where you are neither a manager nor a member.

You just need to click on the delete icon |image311| of the corresponding space in the interface of the tab 
"Manage spaces".

|image312|

A confirmation popup appears allowing you either to confirm or cancel the space's deletion.

|image313|

> If you click on Cancel button, nothing happens and if you click on the Delete button, the space is removed.

Reviewer 2: The space is removed with all its data.

Author: Ok i will add a link redirecting to the space's deletion section

.. _AdministratingSpaces.Permissions:

Permissions tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image318|

Through this tab you can, as an admistrator of the platform, define who can create spaces and who can manage
all the platform's spaces.

To define who can create spaces:

> 1. Click on edit icon |image314| in front of **Create spaces** ==> A field with the current values appears 

Reviewer 2: In the actions column and not in front of Create spaces.
A field with the current values appears in the Groups column.

Author: i meant the line of create spaces

> 1. Click on edit icon |image314| in front of **Create spaces** ==> A field with the inputted values appears 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on edit icon |image314| in front of **Create spaces** ==> A field with the current values appears 
```

>    allowing to remove them. The edit icon becomes a save icon |image315| and a new icon appears |image317| allowing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   letting you remove them. The edit icon becomes a save icon |image315| and a new icon appears |image317| letting
```

>    to cancel the edition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   you cancel your changes.
```

   
   |image319|
   

> 2. Remove existing values and/or input new ones. When inputting new values, you will get suggestions 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Remove existing values and/or enter new ones. When typing in the field, you will get type-ahead suggestions 
```

>    facilitating you the selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   of groups.
```

Reviewer: @mzorai I'm not sure. is it just groups or groups and user ?

> 3. When you finish selecting the groups of users you want to grant them the spaces creation permission, click on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. When you finish entering or selecting the groups you want to grant spaces creation permission to, click on 
```

   the save icon |image316|.  

> To define the :ref:`group of spaces managers <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>`, you just have to follow the same 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define the :ref:`group of spaces managers <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>`, simply follow the same 
```

> procedure as for the previous case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
procedure.
```

register a new user. An email that notifies of newly registered user
should be sent to you.

.. _UserGuide.AdministratingSpaces:

======================
Administrating spaces 
======================

Starting from eXo Platform 5.2, it is possible to restrict which users can create and/or manage spaces

> through an interface easy to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through an easy to use interface .
```

|image305|

.. note:: By default, only the super user (i.e. **root**) is allowed to create spaces and only administrators (i.e.

>           the group ``*:/platform/administrators`` members) are allowed to manage spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          the members of the group ``*:/platform/administrators``) are allowed to manage spaces.
```

          
The spaces administration interface is accessible via the menu Administration --> Spaces.

|image306|

This interface contains two tabs:

- "Manage spaces" tab displays the list of spaces and the corresponding actions: edit and delete.

> - "Permissions" tab allows you to grant permissions to a group of users either to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Permissions" tab lets you grant permissions to a group of users to :ref:`Create <Create-Space>` or :ref:`Manage <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>` spaces. 
```

> 

Reviewer: remove line

>      -  :ref:`Create spaces <Create-Space>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>      -  or to :ref:`Manage spaces <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>`

Reviewer: remove line
```suggestion
```

> In this section, we will describe how to use the Spaces administration interface through two parts:     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you will learn how to use the Spaces administration interface to :     
```

-  :ref:`Manage spaces <AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces>`
-  :ref:`Change permissions <AdministratingSpaces.Permissions>`

.. _AdministratingSpaces.ManageSpaces:

Manage spaces tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image308|

The "Manage spaces" tab is viewable by the group of users defined in the 

> :ref:`Permissions tab <AdministratingSpaces.Permissions>` by the variable "Manage spaces". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`Permissions tab <AdministratingSpaces.Permissions>` by the "Manage spaces" permission. Users with this permission are allowed to edit or delete any space in the platform.
```

|image307|

> If the variable is not defined through the interface, the group of users defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the permission has no value defined in the interface, the group of users defined
```

> by the propoerty :ref:`exo.social.spaces.administrators <SpacesAdministration>` in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by the property :ref:`exo.social.spaces.administrators <SpacesAdministration>` in
```

:ref:`exo.properties file <Configuration.eXoConfiguration>` is allowed to manage spaces.

> .. warning:: When the spaces managers group is defined by the two methods i.e. through the interface and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: When the Manage spaces permission is defined both through the interface and 
```

>              by configuration and that the values are different, the value in the interface takes precedence. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             by configuration, the value in the interface takes precedence. 
```

> .. note:: If the variable is neither defined through the interface nor by configuration, only administrators are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: If the permission is neither defined through the interface nor by configuration, only administrators are
```

          allowed to access the Manage spaces tab.
          

> Users allowed to manage spaces can edit or delete any space in the platform.

Reviewer: moved up

Edit space
-----------

> When you are a member of the group of spaces managers and you click on the edit icon |image309| of a specific space,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users with the "Manage Spaces" permission, can edit space settings by clicking the edit icon |image309| of a specific space.
```

> you are redirected to the configuration page of that space in an another browser tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Space Settings page of the target space is opened in another browser tab.
```

|image310|

> You can edit the space's configuration by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One can edit the space settings by:
```

> You can edit the space's configuration by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, even without being a member on that space, one can edit the space settings, access, visibility, members, applications and navigation.
```

> -  Changing its description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
condensed above

> -  Changing its name 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
condensed above

> -  Adding or removing members 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
condensed above

> -  Changing the space's visibility and accessibilty 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
condensed above

> -  Adding or removing Applications 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
condensed above

> -  Editing the space's navigation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
condensed above

> even if you are not a member on that space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

moved up

.. tip: You can find :ref:`here <Manage-Space-Settings>` the possible actions for a space's manager.

Delete space
--------------

> Being a member of the spaces managers group allows you also to :ref:`delete <Delete-Space>` any space of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users with the Manage Spaces permission, can also to :ref:`delete <Delete-Space>` any space of 
```

> the platform even the spaces where you are neither a manager nor a member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the platform even the spaces where they are neither a manager nor a member.
```

> You just need to click on the delete icon |image311| of the corresponding space in the interface of the tab 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete a space, a click on the delete icon |image311| of the corresponding space in the interface of the "Manage spaces" tab is needed.
```

> "Manage spaces".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
included above

|image312|

> A confirmation popup appears allowing you either to confirm or cancel 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A confirmation popup appears to confirm deletion of the space or cancel 
```

:ref:`the space's deletion <Delete-Space>`.

|image313|

> If you click on Cancel button, nothing happens and if you click on the Delete button, the space is removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
obvious. It's a confirmation popup. I don't think we need to describe it.

> .. note:: When you delete a space, all its date is also removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: When you delete a space, all its data is also removed and can't be recovered.
```

.. _AdministratingSpaces.Permissions:

Permissions tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image318|

> Through this tab you can, as an admistrator of the platform, define who can create spaces and who can manage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tab allows administrators of the platform, define permissions related to all spaces of the platform.
```

> all the platform's spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
included above

To define who can create spaces:

1. Click on edit icon |image314| in the actions column of the line **Create spaces** ==> A field with the  

>    current values appears letting you remove them. The edit icon becomes a save icon |image315| and a new icon 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   current values appears to easily edit them. The edit icon turns into a save icon |image315| and a new 
```

>    appears |image317| letting you cancel your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |image317| icon appears to cancel the changes.
```

   
   |image319|
   

> 2. Remove existing values and/or enter new ones. When typing in the field, you will get type-ahead suggestions 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Remove existing values and/or enter new ones. When typing in the field, type-ahead suggestions will appear below for easier selection
```

>    of groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   of the groups.
```

> 3. When you finish entering or selecting the groups you want to grant spaces creation permission to, click on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After entering or selecting the groups, a click on 
```

>    the save icon |image316|.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the save icon |image316| will validate the new permission grants.  
```
